Interpreter design pattern (#211)
rust-unofficial/patterns: patterns/interpreter.md

        Self { it: infix.chars() }
    }

    pub fn interpret(&mut self, out: &mut String) {
        self.exp(out);
    }

    fn next_char(&mut self) -> Option<char> {
        self.it.next()
    }

    fn exp(&mut self, out: &mut String) {
        self.term(out);

        while let Some(op) = self.next_char() {
            if op == '+' || op == '-' {
                self.term(out);
                out.push(op);
            } else {
                panic!("Unexpected symbol '{}'", op);
            }
        }
    }

    fn term(&mut self, out: &mut String) {
        match self.next_char() {
            Some(ch) if ch.is_digit(10) => out.push(ch),
            Some(ch) => panic!("Unexpected symbol '{}'", ch),
            None => panic!("Unexpected end of string"),
        }
    }
}

pub fn main() {
    let mut infix = String::from("2+3");
    let mut postfix = String::new();
    let mut intr = Interpreter::new(&infix);
    intr.interpret(&mut postfix);
    assert_eq!(postfix, "23+");

    infix = String::from("1-2+3-4");
    postfix = String::new();
    intr = Interpreter::new(&infix);
    intr.interpret(&mut postfix);
    assert_eq!(postfix, "12-3+4-");
}
```

> 

Reviewer: For me it's ending a bit abruptly. We could mak a small discussion point here or something?

Author: @simonsan  Yeah, I'm going to add. It is not finished. I want to also mention about `macro_rules` how to create DSLs
I mentioned you simply to get feedback on simplicity of the example.

Reviewer: Ah ok I get it, yeah, I think that it is much simpler and a good take. 👍🏽

# Interpreter

## Description

If a problem occurs very often and requires long and repetitive steps to solve
it, then the problem instances might be expressed in a simple language and an
interpreter object could solve it by interpreting the sentences written in this
simple language.

Basically, for any kind of problems we define:

- a [domain specific language](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Domain-specific_language),
- a grammar for this language
- an interpreter that solves the problem instances.

## Motivation

Our goal is to translate simple mathematical expressions into
postfix expressions (or [Reverse Polish notation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reverse_Polish_notation))
For simplicity, our expressions consist of ten digits `0`, ..., `9` and two
operations `+`, `-`. For example,
the expression `2 + 4` is translated into `2 4  +`.

## Context Free Grammars

In order to understand the Interpreter pattern you need to know a little bit
about formal language theory. If you already know what a grammar is feel free
to skip this section, otherwise fasten your seat belts.

> Basicaly, a [Context Free Grammar (CFG)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Context-free_grammar)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Basically, a [Context Free Grammar (CFG)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Context-free_grammar)
```

defines a set of rules that describe all possible strings over some finite
set of symbols, formally called alphabet. These strings usually have some well
defined structure. For example, strings of all balanced parentheses:

```ignore
(), (()), ()(), ()(()), ..
```

Formally a CFG consists of terminal symbols, non-terminal symbols, a start
(non-terminal) symbol, and production rules.

In the previous example we have two terminal symbols `(` and `)`. We define a
single non-terminal (at the same time the start) symbol `S` and production rules
as:

```ignore
S -> SS
S -> (S)
S -> ()
```

So, in order to generate a string with balanced parentheses we repeatedly apply
production rules. For example, to derive `()()` we apply the following rules:

```ignore
S -> SS -> ()(S) -> ()()

> ```

Reviewer 2: I am kinda confused at this part other than the other parts, maybe my CS knowledge isn't that good yet. Maybe I get a little bit but still not quite understand.

Author: @pickfire which part is confusing? Is explanation too short/not clear? Or is CFGs is not necessary here?

Reviewer 2: I mean I find it harder to understand, maybe not very clear or because the prerequisite knowledge required is too high, not sure if it is necessary.

Author: @pickfire 
> the prerequisite knowledge required is too high

In this section I very briefly describe [Context Free Grammars](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Context-free_grammar). This topic is typically covered in Formal languages or Compilers course, and it is typically given at senior undergrad or graduate CS/CE level. I agree that for a someone who never saw CFG this section isn't enough to convey the whole picture about the subject. We could add a note that it is not essential and just simply a reminder and you can skip it.
 
Next, the reason why I am mentioning, here, CFGs is because the Interpreter pattern is closely related to formal languages, though it is not about writing parsers. Initially I didn't include this section. Later I included it on reviewers' recommendations. 

We could remove this section. What do @simonsan and @MarcoIeni think?

Reviewer: Hmm, I know what @pickfire means, but I would actually keep it as is and wait for feedback of a broader mass of people. If there are many questions coming up, we can refactor in the future, answer frequently asked questions etc. 

> We could add a note that it is not essential and just simply a reminder and you can skip it.

Indeed that is a viable approach imho 👍🏽 

Y

Author: Removed CFG section.

# Interpreter

## Description

If a problem occurs very often and requires long and repetitive steps to solve
it, then the problem instances might be expressed in a simple language and an
interpreter object could solve it by interpreting the sentences written in this

> simple language. Basically, for any kind of problems we define a [domain specific
> language](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Domain-specific_language), then define
> a grammar for this language and design interpreter solving problem
> instances.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
simple language.
Basically, for any kind of problems we define:

- a [domain specific language](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Domain-specific_language),
- a grammar for this language
- an interpreter that solves the problem instances.
```

This sentence is not that clear. Check if you like something like that or rephrase your version a bit.

## Motivation

> Our goal is translate simple mathematical expressions into

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Our goal is to translate simple mathematical expressions into
```

postfix expressions (or [Reverse Polish notation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reverse_Polish_notation))

> For simplicity, our expressions consists of ten digits `0`,...,`9` and two
> operations `+, -`. For example, the expression `2 + 4` is translated into `2 4  +`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For simplicity, our expressions consist of ten digits `0`, ..., `9` and two
operations `+`, `-`. For example, the expression `2 + 4` is translated into `2 4  +`.
```

about formal language theory. If you already know what a grammar is feel free
to skip this section, otherwise fasten your seat belts.

Basicaly, a [Context Free Grammar (CFG)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Context-free_grammar)
defines a set of rules that describe all possible strings over some finite
set of symbols, formally called alphabet. These strings usually have some well
defined structure. For example, strings of all balanced parentheses:

```ignore
(), (()), ()(), ()(()), ..
```

Formally a CFG consists of terminal symbols, non-terminal symbols, a start
(non-terminal) symbol, and production rules.

In the previous example we have two terminal symbols `(` and `)`. We define a
single non-terminal (at the same time the start) symbol `S` and production rules
as:

```ignore
S -> SS
S -> (S)
S -> ()
```

So, in order to generate a string with balanced parentheses we repeatedly apply
production rules. For example, to derive `()()` we apply the following rules:

```ignore
S -> SS -> ()(S) -> ()()
```

## Context Free Grammar for our problem

Recall that our task is translate infix expressions into postfix ones. Let's

> define a context free grammar for a set of infix expressions over `0,...,9, +,-`,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
define a context free grammar for a set of infix expressions over `0`, ..., `9`, `+`, and `-`,
```

where:

> - terminal symbols: `0,...,9, +,-`
> - non-terminal symbols: `exp, term`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- terminal symbols: `0`, ..., `9`, `+`, `-`
- non-terminal symbols: `exp`, `term`
```

- start symbol is `exp`
- and the following are production rules

```ignore
exp -> exp + term
exp -> exp - term
exp -> term
term -> 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9
```

> In fact this grammar should be further transformed depending on what we are going

Reviewer 3: I don't understand how "in fact" is connected with the rest.

Author: @MarcoIeni This CFG is not suitable yet to parse with a recursive descent parser. It has left recursion which should be eliminated. But I didn't go into details.

Reviewer 3: Ok, let's see if other reviewers find that there is a problem here.
If nobody replies within a week or so we can mark this as resolved.

Author: @MarcoIeni We could remove this part if it is confusing. I put it here just in case someone asks "how did they come up with this Rust code from the gramma?". In fact implementation is up to implementer. I'd personally prefer manually coding if the grammar is "simple" enough to be addressed with a recursive descent parser. Another one could prefer tools such as Yacc, Bison.... or just use table. You know this is outside of our scope. All of them could be found in a book on compilers or specifically parsers. As I mentioned, this pattern is NOT at all about parsers. So, if you feel this "in fact" part does not fit here, let's remove. Or you could suggest another wording.

Reviewer: I wrapped the text block under it into a "Note", so it's more seen as some additional explanation. Should be fine imho.

> to do with the grammar. For example, we might need to remove left recursion.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
to do with it. For example, we might need to remove left recursion.
```

> For more details please see [Compilers:Principles,Techniques, and Tools](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Compilers:_Principles,_Techniques,_and_Tools)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For more details please see [Compilers: Principles, Techniques, and Tools](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Compilers:_Principles,_Techniques,_and_Tools)
```

(aka Dragon Book).

## Solution

> We simply implement a recursive descent parser. The code panics when an expression
> is syntactically wrong (for exmple `2-34` or `2+5-` are wrong according to the
> grammar definition).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We simply implement a recursive descent parser.
For simplicity's sake, the code panics when an expression
is syntactically wrong (for example `2-34` or `2+5-` are wrong according to the
grammar definition).
```

```rust
pub struct Interpreter<'a> {
    it: std::str::Chars<'a>,
}

impl<'a> Interpreter<'a> {

>     pub fn new(infix: &'a String) -> Self {

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    pub fn new(infix: &'a str) -> Self {
```

Author: @MarcoIeni Then we could remove unnecessary `String` instances from `main`. I mean simply call `intr.interpret("2+3")`.

        Self { it: infix.chars() }
    }

    pub fn interpret(&mut self, out: &mut String) {
        self.exp(out);

>     }

Reviewer 3: what's the point of having this function? 🤔
It's the same as `exp`

Author: @MarcoIeni  I just follow the convention. Trait or struct must implement the function `interpret `, though I don't know why it is required. Look [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Interpreter_pattern](url) or GoF book.

Reviewer 3: Ok, if you like it you could delete this function and rename `exp` into `interpret` (and make it pub).
Otherwise if you like things as they are now just mark this conversation as resolved :)

            if op == '+' || op == '-' {
                self.term(out);
                out.push(op);
            } else {
                panic!("Unexpected symbol '{}'", op);
            }
        }
    }

    fn term(&mut self, out: &mut String) {
        match self.next_char() {
            Some(ch) if ch.is_digit(10) => out.push(ch),
            Some(ch) => panic!("Unexpected symbol '{}'", ch),
            None => panic!("Unexpected end of string"),
        }
    }
}

pub fn main() {
    let infix = String::from("2+3");
    let mut intr = Interpreter::new(&infix);
    let mut postfix = String::new();
    intr.interpret(&mut postfix);
    assert_eq!(postfix, "23+");

    let infix = String::from("1-2+3-4");
    intr = Interpreter::new(&infix);
    postfix.clear();
    intr.interpret(&mut postfix);
    assert_eq!(postfix, "12-3+4-");
}
```

## Discussion

There may be a wrong perception that the Interpreter design pattern
is about design grammars for formal languages and implementation
of parsers for these grammars. In fact, this pattern is about expressing
problem instances in a more specific way and implementing
functions/classes/structs solving these problem instances.

> Rust language has `macro_rules!` that allows to define special

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Rust language has `macro_rules!` that allow to define special
```

> syntax and rules how to expand this syntax into source code.

Reviewer 3: I think that "how to" is not correct here.

Author: @MarcoIeni Why "how to" is not correct? This is from Rust by Examples book: 
> instead of generating a function call, macros are expanded into source code that gets compiled with the rest of the program

But how, I mean according to what rules, it will be expanded depends on us, e.g., on how we define the rules.

Reviewer 3: no, sorry, I mean from an English grammar point of view.
Maybe it is better:

```suggestion
syntax and rules on how to expand this syntax into source code.
```

> In the following example we create a simple `macro_rules!` that computes

Reviewer 3: is this example part of the Interpreter design pattern? Or it's just an example in which you explain macro rules?

Author: @MarcoIeni Using `macro_rules!` is one way to implement interpreter pattern. I am not explaining here how to use `macro_rules!`. The basic idea is that you express a problem in a special syntax like `norm!(...)` rather `let v = vec![...]; norm(&a);...`.

Reviewer 3: Ok.
In the previous version of this article you used macro rules to rewrite the same example you first wrote in code.
This was really effective in my opinion because you clearly showed the power of macro rules.
I wonder if you think this would be useful also here, instead of doing a different example.
I would like to hear also other reviewer's opinion.

Author: @MarcoIeni Ok, let's see what others think. I could rewrite the example if we come to a consensus.

Reviewer: For me either way is nice, if you both think it's nice to use the same "problem" to show the power of macros, why not. :)

Reviewer 3: it's up to you fade2black :)

Author: I just left as is.

# Interpreter

## Description

> If a problem occurs very often and requires long and repetetive steps to solve it,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If a problem occurs very often and requires long and repetitive steps to solve it,
```

> then the problem instances might be epxressed in a simple

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
then the problem instances might be expressed in a simple
```

language and inerpreter object could solve it by

> interprting the sentences written in this simple languge.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
interpreting the sentences written in this simple languge.
```

Basically, for any kind of problems we define a domain
language, then define a grammar for this language and
design interpreter solving problem instances.

## Motivation

> Imagine thta our work is translating simple mathemtaical expressions into

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Imagine that our work is translating simple mathematical expressions into
```

[assembly language](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Assembly_language)
(more simple and low level programming language).
For simplicity, our expressions consists of ten digits `0`,...,`9`,

> four operations `+, -, /, *` and a pair of prenthesis `(, )`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
four operations `+, -, /, *` and a pair of parenthesis `(, )`.
```

> For example, experssion `2 + 4` could be translated into

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, expression `2 + 4` could be translated into
```

```ignore
mov eax, 2
mov ebx, 4
add eax, ebx
```

Our goal is to automate translating into assembly instructions
using the Interpreter design pattern. In other words, we want simply

> provide the Interpreter with an expressions and get assembly

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
provide the Interpreter with an expressions and get Assembly
```

language output. For example

```rust, ignore
x.interpret("7+3*(2-1)", &output);
```

We don't claim that output assembly code is exactly what modern compilers generate,

> but it at least comuptes the expression correctly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
but it at least computes the expression correctly.
```

It is simpy an example of using Interpreter pattern.

## Solution 1

> The grammar for a set of espressions over `0,...,9, +,-,*,/,(,)` is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The grammar for a set of expressions over `0,...,9, +,-,*,/,(,)` is
```

```ignore
exp -> exp + term
exp -> exp - term
exp -> term
term -> term * factor
term -> term / factor
term -> factor
factor -> ( exp )
factor -> 0 | 1| 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9
```

Our first approach is a standard one, simple implementation of

> a recursive descent parser.The following code

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
a recursive descent parser. The following code
```
First time I heard to use recursive descent for parsing, usually I heard it is used for machine learning.

doesn't have `struct` abstraction in order to keep code short.
The code panics when expression is syntactically wrong

> (unbalanced parantheses or missing digit/operator for example).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(unbalanced parentheses or missing digit/operator for example).
```

# Interpreter

## Description

If a problem occurs very often and requires long and repetitive steps to solve it,
then the problem instances might be expressed in a simple

> language and inerpreter object could solve it by

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
language and an interpreter object could solve it by
```

interpreting the sentences written in this simple language.
Basically, for any kind of problems we define a domain
language, then define a grammar for this language and
design interpreter solving problem instances.

## Motivation

Imagine that our work is translating simple mathematical expressions into
[assembly language](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Assembly_language)
(more simple and low level programming language).
For simplicity, our expressions consists of ten digits `0`,...,`9`,
four operations `+, -, /, *` and a pair of parenthesis `(, )`.
For example, expression `2 + 4` could be translated into

```ignore
mov eax, 2
mov ebx, 4
add eax, ebx
```

Our goal is to automate translating into assembly instructions
using the Interpreter design pattern. In other words, we want simply

> provide the Interpreter with an expressions and get Assembly

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
provide the Interpreter with an expression and get Assembly
```

language output. For example

```rust, ignore
x.interpret("7+3*(2-1)", &output);
```

We don't claim that output assembly code is exactly what modern compilers generate,
but it at least computes the expression correctly.
It is simpy an example of using Interpreter pattern.

> 

Reviewer 3: This is confusing, I had to read it multiple times. Couldn't we just delete it? I don't think it's necessary. It's pretty clear that this is an example and we are not building a modern compiler in my opinion :stuck_out_tongue: 
What do you think?

Author: sure

## Solution 1

> The grammar for a set of expressions over `0,...,9, +,-,*,/,(,)` is

Reviewer 3: Should we give a brief explanation about what a grammar is? And explain this example in particular?
For example why both `exp` and `term` are necessary.
Otherwise this chapter is readable only by people with a MSc degree in computer science 😅

Author: @MarcoIeni  Sure, I can explain, but I think we shouldn't go beyond simply mentioning what a CFG is and that `expr`, `terms...` and `factor` are the result of grammar transformation. In any case strong knowledge of CS is still needed :-D . I don't mind detailed explanation of CFG and related topics, but to what extend?

Reviewer 3: Thank you for providing the small explanation, with an example, too!
I think it works great :)

```ignore
exp -> exp + term
exp -> exp - term
exp -> term
term -> term * factor
term -> term / factor
term -> factor
factor -> ( exp )

> factor -> 0 | 1| 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
factor -> 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9
```

    }
}

fn expr(input: &[u8], cur: &mut usize, out: &mut Vec<String>) {
    term(input, cur, out);

    loop {
        let ch = token(input, *cur);
        if ch == '$' || (ch != '+' && ch != '-') {
            break;
        } else {
            *cur += 1;
            term(input, cur, out);
            translate(ch, out);
        }
    }
}

fn term(input: &[u8], cur: &mut usize, out: &mut Vec<String>) {
    factor(input, cur, out);

    loop {
        let ch = token(input, *cur);
        if ch == '$' || (ch != '*' && ch != '/') {
            break;
        } else {
            *cur += 1;
            factor(input, cur, out);
            translate(ch, out);
        }
    }
}

fn factor(input: &[u8], cur: &mut usize, out: &mut Vec<String>) {
    let ch = token(input, *cur);

    if ch.is_digit(10) {
        out.push(format!("push {}", ch));
    } else if ch == '(' {
        *cur += 1;
        expr(input, cur, out);

        let ch = token(input, *cur);
        if ch != ')' {
            panic!("Missing ')' at {}", *cur);
        }
    } else {
        panic!("Unexpected symbol '{}', at {}", ch, *cur);
    }

    *cur += 1;
}

fn translate(ch: char, out: &mut Vec<String>) {

>     out.push(String::from("pop ebx"));

Reviewer 2: Why not `push_str`?

Author: @pickfire because I store each instruction as a separate entry in a vector.

Author: For example, I might need to do additional scan over instructions, or simple compute number of instructions,..etc.

Reviewer 3: I agree with fade2black, it is better to store each instruction in a separate entry of the vec.

# Interpreter

## Description

If a problem occurs very often and requires long and repetitive steps to solve it,
then the problem instances might be expressed in a simple
language and an interpreter object could solve it by
interpreting the sentences written in this simple language.
Basically, for any kind of problems we define a domain
language, then define a grammar for this language and
design interpreter solving problem instances.

## Motivation

Imagine that our work is translating simple mathematical expressions into
[assembly language](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Assembly_language)
(more simple and low level programming language).
For simplicity, our expressions consists of ten digits `0`,...,`9`,
four operations `+, -, /, *` and a pair of parenthesis `(, )`.
For example, expression `2 + 4` could be translated into

```ignore
mov eax, 2
mov ebx, 4
add eax, ebx
```

Our goal is to automate translating into assembly instructions
using the Interpreter design pattern. In other words, we want simply
provide the Interpreter with an expression and get Assembly
language output. For example

```rust, ignore
x.interpret("7+3*(2-1)", &output);
```

## Context Free Grammars

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

In order to understand the Interpreter pattern you need to know a little bit
about formal language theory.
If you already know what a grammar is feel free to skip this section,
otherwise fasten your seat belts.

```
Do you like this?

Basicaly, a
[Context Free Grammar](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Context-free_grammar)

> (CFG) describes (or defines) all possible strings

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
(CFG) defines a set of rules that describe all possible strings
```
Do you like this version better?

over some finite set of symbols, formally called alphabet.

> These strings usually has some well defined structure.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
These strings usually have some well defined structure.
```
Also, is `some` correct here?

> For example, strings of all balanced parentheses

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For example, strings of all balanced parentheses:
```

```ignore

> (), (()), ()(), ()(()),..

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
(), (()), ()(), ()(()), ..
```

```

> Formally a CFG consists of three sets: terminal symbols,

Reviewer 3: I count four items here :stuck_out_tongue:

Author: @MarcoIeni fixed. :-)

nonterminal symbols, a start (nonterminal) symbol,
and production rules.

In the previous example we have two terminal symbols `(` and `)`.
We define a single nonterminal (at the same time the start)

> symbol `S` and priduction rules as

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
symbol `S` and production rules as
```

```ignore
S -> SS

> S ->(S)
> S ->()

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
S -> (S)
S -> ()
```

```

So, in order to generate a string with balanced parentheses we
repeatedly apply production rules.
For example, to derive `()()` we apply the following rules

```ignore
S -> SS -> ()(S) -> ()()
```

> 

Reviewer 3: Here we have to start a new section, just to make it clear that the previous example is finished.

Reviewer 3: Actually, I think we should move this section, because it is in the middle of the assembly stuff. I would put this before the assembly discussion. What do you think?

Author: @MarcoIeni I don't mind. Could you update yourself?

Next, let's define a context free grammar
for a set of expressions over `0,...,9, +,-,*,/,(,)`, where

- terminal symbols: `0,...,9, +,-,*,/,(,)`
- nonterminal symbols: `exp, term, factor`
- start symbol is `exp`
- and the following are production rules

```ignore
exp -> exp + term
exp -> exp - term
exp -> term
term -> term * factor
term -> term / factor
term -> factor
factor -> ( exp )
factor -> 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9
```

In fact this grammar should be further transformed
depending on what we are going to do with the grammar.
For example, we might need to remove left recursion.
For more details please see
[Compilers:Principles,Techniques, and Tools
](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Compilers:_Principles,_Techniques,_and_Tools)
(aka Dragon Book).

## Solution 1

Our first approach is a standard one, simple implementation of
a recursive descent parser. The following code
doesn't have `struct` abstraction in order to keep code short.

> The code panics when expression is syntactically wrong

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Furthermore, the code panics when an expression is syntactically wrong
```

(unbalanced parentheses or missing digit/operator for example).

```rust

> fn token(input: &[u8], cur: usize) -> char {

Reviewer 3: first question that came to my mind: "what's cur?"

Reviewer 3: It stands for current? Maybe we should call this `index` or something like that?
In general I like extended nouns, but this might be only my personal preference.

Author: > first question that came to my mind: "what's cur?"
`cur` is the index pointing to the current symbol.
Yeah, we could rename it for readability.

            break;
        } else {
            *cur += 1;
            factor(input, cur, out);
            translate(ch, out);
        }
    }
}

fn factor(input: &[u8], cur: &mut usize, out: &mut Vec<String>) {
    let ch = token(input, *cur);

    if ch.is_digit(10) {
        out.push(format!("push {}", ch));
    } else if ch == '(' {
        *cur += 1;
        expr(input, cur, out);

        let ch = token(input, *cur);
        if ch != ')' {
            panic!("Missing ')' at {}", *cur);
        }
    } else {
        panic!("Unexpected symbol '{}', at {}", ch, *cur);
    }

    *cur += 1;
}

fn translate(ch: char, out: &mut Vec<String>) {
    out.push(String::from("pop ebx"));
    out.push(String::from("pop eax"));
    out.push(format!("{} eax, ebx", to_oper(ch)));
    out.push(String::from("push eax"));
}

fn to_oper(ch: char) -> String {
    match ch {
        '+' => return String::from("add"),
        '-' => return String::from("sub"),
        '*' => return String::from("mul"),
        '/' => return String::from("div"),
        _ => panic!("Invalid operator '{}'", ch),
    }
}

pub fn main() {
    let mut out = vec![];
    let mut cur = 0;
    let exp = b"2/(7-3)";

>     single_expr(exp, &mut cur, &mut out);

Reviewer 3: you are not using cur after this, so there is no need to take it as argument.
It could be created inside `single_expr`

Author: @MarcoIeni  In fact I think the best solution is to wrap everything into a struct `Parser`, define `index` and other necessary vars like `index`, and hence we could git rid of passing around `index`. I didn't t want to bloat the code.

for a set of expressions over `0,...,9, +,-,*,/,(,)`, where

- terminal symbols: `0,...,9, +,-,*,/,(,)`
- nonterminal symbols: `exp, term, factor`
- start symbol is `exp`
- and the following are production rules

```ignore
exp -> exp + term
exp -> exp - term
exp -> term
term -> term * factor
term -> term / factor
term -> factor
factor -> ( exp )
factor -> 0 | 1 | 2 | 3 | 4 | 5 | 6 | 7 | 8 | 9
```

In fact this grammar should be further transformed
depending on what we are going to do with the grammar.
For example, we might need to remove left recursion.
For more details please see
[Compilers:Principles,Techniques, and Tools
](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Compilers:_Principles,_Techniques,_and_Tools)
(aka Dragon Book).

## Solution 1

Our first approach is a standard one, simple implementation of
a recursive descent parser. The following code
doesn't have `struct` abstraction in order to keep code short.
Furthermore, the code panics when an expression is syntactically wrong
(unbalanced parentheses or missing digit/operator for example).

```rust
fn token(input: &[u8], cur: usize) -> char {
    if cur < input.len() {
        input[cur] as char
    } else {

>         '$' // End of line

Reviewer 3: What if here we return `None` instead of the special character `$`?
So the return type of this function is an `Option`.

However, maybe the best thing would be to implement an Iterator.

Author: Is `$` too confusing? Adding `Option` will chain other changes. Lines may increase. Is it ok to add more lines? Last time I wrote such code I got feedback that "too many lines".

}

fn main() {

> 	let a = 3;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    let a = 3;
```
